<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Dedication</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="frontmatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="dedication" epub:type="dedication">
			<p>To Edmund Clerihew Bentley</p>
			<div epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p>
					<span>A cloud was on the mind of men, and wailing went the weather,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yea, a sick cloud upon the soul when we were boys together.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Science announced nonentity and art admired decay;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The world was old and ended: but you and I were gay;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Round us in antic order their crippled vices came⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lust that had lost its laughter, fear that had lost its shame.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like the white lock of Whistler, that lit our aimless gloom,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Men showed their own white feather as proudly as a plume.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Life was a fly that faded, and death a drone that stung;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The world was very old indeed when you and I were young.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They twisted even decent sin to shapes not to be named:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Men were ashamed of honour; but we were not ashamed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Weak if we were and foolish, not thus we failed, not thus;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When that black Baal blocked the heavens he had no hymns from us.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Children we were⁠—our forts of sand were even as weak as we,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>High as they went we piled them up to break that bitter sea.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fools as we were in motley, all jangling and absurd,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When all church bells were silent our cap and bells were heard.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Not all unhelped we held the fort, our tiny flags unfurled;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some giants laboured in that cloud to lift it from the world.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I find again the book we found, I feel the hour that flings</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Far out of fish-shaped Paumanok some cry of cleaner things;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the Green Carnation withered, as in forest fires that pass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Roared in the wind of all the world ten million leaves of grass;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or sane and sweet and sudden as a bird sings in the rain⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Truth out of Tusitala spoke and pleasure out of pain.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yea, cool and clear and sudden as a bird sings in the grey,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dunedin to Samoa spoke, and darkness unto day.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But we were young; we lived to see God break their bitter charms.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>God and the good Republic come riding back in arms:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We have seen the City of Mansoul, even as it rocked, relieved⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blessed are they who did not see, but being blind, believed.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>This is a tale of those old fears, even of those emptied hells,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And none but you shall understand the true thing that it tells⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of what colossal gods of shame could cow men and yet crash,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of what huge devils hid the stars, yet fell at a pistol flash.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The doubts that were so plain to chase, so dreadful to withstand⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Oh, who shall understand but you; yea, who shall understand?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The doubts that drove us through the night as we two talked amain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And day had broken on the streets e’er it broke upon the brain.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Between us, by the peace of God, such truth can now be told;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yea, there is strength in striking root and good in growing old.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We have found common things at last and marriage and a creed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I may safely write it now, and you may safely read.</span>
				</p>
			</div>
			<footer>
				<p epub:type="z3998:signature">
					<abbr epub:type="z3998:personal-name">G. K. C.</abbr>
				</p>
			</footer>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
